# MODEL1202030001: Dupeux2011_ABAreceptor_Monomer

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1202030001.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1202030001.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**A thermodynamic switch modulates abscisic acid receptor sensitivit y.**   
Dupeux F, Santiago J, Betz K, Twycross J, Park SY, Rodriguez L, Gonzalez-
Guzman M, Jensen MR, Krasnogor N, Blackledge M, Holdsworth M, Cutler SR,
Rodrigue z PL, Márquez JA _EMBO J._ [2011 Oct; Volume: 30 (Issue: 20 )] Page
info: 4171-84 [21847091](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21847091) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a key hormone regulating plant growth, development and
the response to biotic and abiotic stress. ABA binding to pyrabactin
resistance (PYR )/PYR1-like (PYL)/Regulatory Component of Abscisic acid
Receptor (RCAR) intracell ular receptors promotes the formation of stable
complexes with certain protein ph osphatases type 2C (PP2Cs), leading to the
activation of ABA signalling. The PYR/ PYL/RCAR family contains 14 genes in
Arabidopsis and is currently the largest pla nt hormone receptor family known;
however, it is unclear what functional differen tiation exists among
receptors. Here, we identify two distinct classes of recepto rs, dimeric and
monomeric, with different intrinsic affinities for ABA and whose differential
properties are determined by the oligomeric state of their apo forms .
Moreover, we find a residue in PYR1, H60, that is variable between family
membe rs and plays a key role in determining oligomeric state. In silico
modelling of t he ABA activation pathway reveals that monomeric receptors have
a competitive adv antage for binding to ABA and PP2Cs. This work illustrates
how receptor oligomeri zation can modulate hormonal responses and more
generally, the sensitivity of a l igand-dependent signalling system.

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


